# Code for MODELLING ADHESION IN STOCHASTIC AND MEAN-FIELD MODELS OF CELL MIGRATION

This README provides an overview of all the code used in this study to model and visualise cell migration and adhesion.

## SIMULATION CODE

The code generates data used to produce the figures presented in the paper.

1. `single_species_adhesion_par.m`: simulates the single-species adhesion model.

2. `cross_adhesion_1D_par.m`: simulates the one-dimensional, two-species adhesion model.

3. `cross_adhesion_2D_par.m`: simulates the two-dimensional, two-species adhesion model.

4. `initial_cond.m`: defines initial conditions for the agent-based model (ABM) used to produce various figures.

5. `single_species_pde.ipynb`: solves the partial differential equation (PDE) for the single-species, two-dimensional ABM, computes a pseudo-1D solution, and saves it as a `.mat` file.

6. `pde_two_species_1D.m`: defines the PDE system for the one-dimensional, two-species model (Equations 14 and 15 in the paper).

7. `pdebc_two_species_1D.m`: specifies boundary conditions for `pde_two_species_1D.m`.

8. `pdeic_two_species_1D.m`: specifies initial conditions for `pde_two_species_1D.m`.

9. `solve_pde_two_species_1D.m`: solves the PDE defined in `pde_two_species_1D.m` using the boundary and initial conditions from `pdebc_two_species_1D.m` and `pdeic_two_species_1D.m`.

10. `RHS_sme_two_species_1D.m`: defines the right-hand side of the one-dimensional discrete mean equations (DMEs) [Equations 27 and 28 in the paper].

11. `sme_two_species_1D.m`: solve the DMEs from `RHS_sme_two_species_1D.m` with a specified initial condition.

12. `two_species_2D_pde.ipynb`: solves the PDE corresponding to the two-species adhesion model in two dimensions (Equations 29 and 30 in the paper), computes the pseudo-1D approximation of the two-dimensional solution and outputs data as a `.mat` file.

13. `RHS_sme_two_species_2D.m`: defines the right-hand side of the two-dimensional DMEs (Equation B1 and B2 in the paper).

14. `sme_two_species_1D.m`: solves the two-dimensional DME from `RHS_sme_two_species_2D.m` with a specified initial condition.


## PLOTTING CODE

To reproduce figures from the study, use the plotting scripts listed below. Each script loads `.mat` data generated by a stochastic or deterministic simulation code, so make sure to run the corresponding simulation script first.

P1. `plot_density_fig_1.m`: produces Figure 1.

P2: `diff_coeff_heatmap_fig_2.m`: produces Figure 2.

P3. `plot_density_figure_4_and_5.m`: produces Figures 4 and 5.

P4. `plot_density_sme_fig_6.m`: produces figure 6.

P5. `plot_pattern_abm_fig_7.m`: produced figure 7.

P6. `plot_density_sme_fig_8.m`: produces figure 8.

P7. `plot_density_fig_10.m`: produces figure 10.

P8. `plot_pattern_abm_fig_11.m`: produces figure 11.

P9: `plot_pattern_sme_fig_12.m`: produces figure 12.
